---
title: AINoon Tutorial 1
---

The goal of this tutorial is to:

* Get you using a chatbot for common business use cases
* Identify common issues with accuracy you should keep in mind while
  using GenAI
* Provide some tips for effective prompting

## Data Security and Privacy

Before we begin, it is **very important** to remember:

* Public chatbots may use your chats and data you upload to inform
  responses from future chatbots
* You shouldn't upload any data to an AI service without company
  approval, especially:
  * Internal company data
  * Customer data
* Check with your IT department for approved AI services and what data
  is appropriate to upload to them

## Open a new chat

* Open [chatgpt.com](https://chatgpt.com/) or a similar tool
* We'll start working in a new chat

## Brainstorming and Drafting

Let's start by using the chatbot for some brainstorming for kicking
off a new project at work.

Type in the following request - what's referred to as a **prompt**:

```
Write an agenda for a project planning meeting
```

* **AUDIENCE QUESTION:** Have a quick skim, any feedback on the
  response?

Some possible observations to discuss:

* It might provide suggestions for follow-up prompts at the end of the
  response.
* It's quite verbose, but we can ask to make it shorter:
  ```
  Make it shorter
  ```
  * It "remembers" the history of the chat, so we don't need to
    provide the original prompt again.
* It's quite generic, it would help to be more specific about our
  project:
  ```
  Make it specific to a project to {AUDIENCE CHOICE; e.g. launch a new website}
  ```

Chatbots can be a great source of inspiration when brainstorming:

* They can draw from ideas in a massive amount of text scraped from
  the internet and other sources.
* You still need to review the content and decide whether the ideas
  are relevant.
* Sometimes coming up with your own ideas first helps you better think
  through a topic.
  * You can use a chatbot to provide a second opinion to see if
    there's anything you've missed.

Similar to brainstorming, chatbots can also be a good way to make a
first draft of a document:

```
Turn this into a meeting invite
```

Chatbots are also quite good at mixing ideas together, like applying a
style of writing to a piece of text:

```
Say it like a pirate
```

## Generating images

Many chatbots now also have built-in capabilities to generate images,
try asking it to draw a city skyline you know well:

```
Generate an image of the {city} skyline
```

This might take a while, so let's come back to this later


## Automating web searches

We can also use chatbots to search the web and summarise results for
us.

**Let's start a new chat for this** so that:

1. You can easily revisit specific chats in the history along the
   sidebar.
2. You avoid the chatbot getting confused by previous messages in the
   chat.

Enable the **web search** option in the chat (sometimes chatbots will
do this automatically if needed), then prompt it to find out about
upcoming events you're interested in:

```
What {event type e.g. tech conferences} are coming soon in {your city}?
```

* You can see a list of sources it used - it's a good idea to
  double-check these.
* This is effectively the same thing as Google's "AI Summary" at the
  top of search results.
* **AUDIENCE QUESTION:** Would you trust this answer to be complete?
  * Probably not, it's only used a source or two.
  * You can use **Deep research** (as a homework exercise) to get it
    to search more thoroughly.
  * These days, there is a risk that the sources themselves are
    AI-generated web pages!
  * If it's important, you should do your own thorough review.


## Reviewing the generated image

Go back to your first chat with the skyline image.

* **AUDIENCE QUESTION:** How well did it do?
* Overall, usually a pretty good approximation
* But you'll see that it will often make mistakes in the details
  * *Point out a few mistakes you can see in your image*

## Summarising Documents

* Now let's try using the chatbot to summarise a document.
* **Start a new chat for this**
* We can upload word docs, PDFs, and more.
* **Again, it is important to not upload company data into unapproved systems**
* Let's use a spreadsheet (as a CSV file) of hotel reviews:

1. From [technoon.org/ainoon](https://technoon.org/ainoon), download
   [`hotel_reviews.csv`](https://technoon.org/ainoon/lesson_1/hotel_reviews.csv)
   * Each row contains a (fake) review with an associated rating.
   * *The file was actually generated by ChatGPT 5 with the following
     prompt: "Write 123 unique 3-sentence reviews for a hotel with
     associated ratings out of 10 in a table"*, along with some manual
     tweaks
     * *It actually returned 182 reviews, with quite a few
       duplicates!*
2. Upload the file to the chat
3. Prompt it with:
   ```
   What are the common issues in these reviews?
   ```

* If we were running this hotel, it's given us some issues to
  investigate, but how do we know these are the most important, or
  that it hasn't missed any common issues?
* If we ask twice, we might not get the same result.
* If it's used code to analyse the data (*which ChatGPT often does*):
  * We might get more consistency in results
  * We can check the code to see if we trust it's approach - but only
    helpful if you can read code
* In general: **good for getting ideas to investigate, but not for
  formal reporting or decision making**

What about asking it more detailed questions?

```
How many rows are in the file?
```

> *Should be 123*

```
What is the average rating?
```

> *Should be approximately 6.5*

* If it doesn't use code to generate the answer, it is likely going to
  be wrong because chatbots answer based on patterns in language -
  they're not a calculator!
* If it generates code to answer the question, it is more likely to
  give a better answer, but the code should still be reviewed.

> *You can try force ChatGPT to not use code by saying "don't use code
> to answer". But do this in a new chat so it can't read the previous
> code-based answer.*

## Prompting Tips

*Refer to slide in the slide deck.*

## Conclusion

* We've seen how we can use a chatbot for a bunch of useful tasks:
  * Brainstorming
  * Drafting
  * Web searching
  * Generating images
  * Summarising documents
* It's quite useful, but it isn't perfect
  * It's just a tool
  * It doesn't actually "think"
  * You need to do the thinking!
  * That's why the logo for this course is just a hat
  * **Refer to "Golden Rule" slide in the slide deck.**
* Next week, we'll learn more about how a chatbot generates responses,
  which will help us better understand these limitations
